Today we are taking a deep dive into Network security concepts. CIA triad..Confidentiality, Integrity, availiability,
Non-repudiation- Non-repudiation is a security principle that ensures a person or entity cannot deny the authenticity of their actions or communications. It is crucial in digital transactions, legal agreements, and cybersecurity to prevent fraud or disputes.
Threat- Potential harmful event....Vulernability- weakness in a system...Likelihood- probality/chance...Impact...Value of threat ($$$) risk- Likelihood and impact a threat will exploit vulnerability.
GDPR- General Data Protection Regualtion...EU privacy...Collection/processing of personal data in the EU...Informed consent and data rights
PCI DSS- Payment card industry data security standard.....Organizations handling credit card transactions, standards for protecting cardholder data.
Risk Management- Identify,assess, and prioritize vulernabilities and threats...Security Controls- Used to mitigate risks.
Cryptograophy- The study of hiding or decoding information/data.There is 3 types..Hash, encryption- Assymetric and Symmetric. 
Hashing- Hashing is a cryptographic process that converts data into a fixed-length string (hash value) using a hash function. We use Hashing to verify the INTEGRITY of data being transferred..alpgorithms..Sha,MD5,
Digital SIgnatures- Cryptographically signed documents that prove authenticity. 
Encryption- converting human-readable data (plaintext) into a coded format (ciphertext) 
Asymmetric Encryption- Uses two diffirent keys, public key ( encrypts data)...Private key ( decrypts data). Its slower, but more secure. RSA algorithm, DH (diffie Hellmen), elliptic curve cryptography.
Symmetric Encryption- uses one key for decrpytion and encryption. Faster and more effeicint for large data encryption. RC5,AES,3DES,DES
The public encryption method starts with the reciever not the sender. The reciever creates two keys, gives the sender the public key, and the reciever keeps the private key.
Data in Transit, Data in Motion, Data at Rest.
Data at rest- Encrypted hard drives... Data stored on a device or server that is not actively moving.
Data in Transit- use TLS encryption...safeguards data as it moves across Internet...
Data in use- Trusted Platform Modules(TPM)...data actively being processed by an application or system. Example: Data in RAM
Zero Day-  security weakness/flaw in software, hardware, firmware unknown to the vendor,developer, or anyone capable of mitigating. A hacker discoveres a security flaw and tries to exploit it.
