Today we are going to review Authentication.
Access control list-  governs how subjects/principals may interact with objects..List of subjects and permissions.
Access control lists are typically implemented with IAM.
IAM (Identity & access management). Identification- A claim you are a person...Authentication- prove a claim..Authorization- grant permissions/rights to resources..Accounting- Audit, logging, resources used.
Single Sign On- Authentication by one type of factor. Typically weaker. 
Multi-Factor Authentication- Authentication by two or more factors...Two Factor authentication- authentication by two diffirent factors
CAS ( Central Authentiction Server)- Organizations can have hundreds or thousands of servers, can manage public keys. Benefits- allows changes to be made instantly. Consistent authentication.
Types of CAS- Kerberos, Radius, TACACS+, LDAP/ Active Directory PKI (digital Signatures) 
LDAP (lightweight Directory Access Protocol)- allows users & apps to find info on peoples profiles, software, devices, and organizations within the network.
LDAP doesnt provide musch security, the transmission are in plaintext.LDAP is widely used in corporate networks, cloud environments, and security infrastructures for managing identities and permissions
RADIUS & TACACS- are authentication protocols used to verify users before granting access to network devices, VPNs, and enterprise systems.
RADIUS( Remote Dial-In user service) - Primarily secures AAA, encrypts only the password. Example: A company uses RADIUS servers to authenticate employees connecting to Wi-Fi networks via username and password.
TACACS (Terminal Access Controller Access-Control System) - Administrative access to network devices. Encrypts entire packet,A network engineer logs into a Cisco router, and TACACS+ verifies their credentials before granting access to device configurations.
EAP (extensible Authenication protocol) - Flexible transport protocol used to carry authenitcation information.
EAP is an authentication framework used in wireless networks and point-to-point connections to verify user identities securely. It is not a single authentication method but rather a protocol that supports multiple authentication mechanisms.
EAP is essential for wifi security. 
